- I really do not like being the guest.
It's my dream to be the guest,
I think being the guest
is easier in some way,
but I don't like it.
- So should Nick and I be asking
you how you make decisions?
- I have no framework
for making decisions.
It's all chaos and panic every single day.
- You said that you think some portion
of the "Decoder" audience just wants you
to end every episode by arresting a CEO.
(Nilay laughing)
(upbeat music)
- Hello and welcome to "Decoder."
I'm Nilay Patel,
editor-in-chief of "The Verge."
No, I'm Kate Cox, senior
producer at "The Verge,"
and "Decoder" is Nilay's show
about big ideas and other problems,
that's why it has his face
and voice all over it.
My co-producer Nick
Statt and I run this show
and it is fun for us every year
to bring in Nilay to answer
your audience questions.
Nilay, welcome to "Decoder."
- I really do not like being the guest.
It's my dream to be the guest.
I think being the guest
is easier in some way,
but I don't like it.
- Tough. (laughs)
- I'm just saying, it's just like
if you sense the abject
terror, here it is,
let's go.
- The "Decoder" team had had quite a year,
among us personally,
we've had births, deaths,
marriages and house purchases.
We've been very busy.
We've also been very busy
making you lots of "Decoder"
that you, the audience, have
had lots of opinions about
and you have written to us and
we love getting those emails.
- We got a lot of
incredibly positive feedback
over the summer when Nilay
was out for parental leave.
So thank you for that.
It was really awesome
to see some other people
in the "Decoder" chair
and to see everybody have
a lot of big thoughts
on what those guest host
brought to the show,
what we should do differently,
how we might improve.
So thank you for those.
- With that said, we're
gonna jump right in
with some listener questions.
- Yeah, the first question we have is
from listener Joe Rodericks.
It's actually a two-part question, Nilay.
The first part is, "Do you
really read all the emails?
"And that must be exhausting."
His second question is
he gets a ton of value
from the "Decoder" questions,
which he's actually
started asking candidates
in job interviews,
particularly how they make decisions.
So he says, "I can't believe
I'm going to suggest this,
"but I'd love it
"if there were more in-the-weeds
Decoder-type questions
"about business decision-making."
So his question is, "Nilay,
"what questions do you want to add
"to the 'Decoder' question list?"
- Well, first, I will say
we do read all the emails
and I think we really enjoy reading them.
The promise is that we read them all,
not that we reply to them.
That's where the work escalates
to be too hard very quickly.
But we love reading
them, keep sending them.
They're very useful.
They shape a lot of the questions I ask
in the episodes afterwards.
So just keep sending 'em.
We love 'em, we talk about them a lot.
The "Decoder" questions
are really interesting.
So you know, we started the show,
I think we're five years into the show now
and podcasts are a forever project,
like, especially interview podcasts.
Kate and Nick spend a lot of time
trying to get guests to show up.
Like, literally just show up on time
and make their headphones work.
Like that's a lot to do every week
unless you have some goals.
And so one of my goals
at the very beginning was
to impose some structure on the show
to try to learn something over time
to make the show,
like, make a promise
to you, the listeners,
and deliver on that promise every week
so it's not just a forever project
about whatsoever in the news.
And so that's where they came from.
'Cause I figured I could ask every CEO
how their company was structured
and how they make decisions
and they would have to,
like, it's not a gotcha question.
The fascinating thing is it turns out
to be a gotcha question
and I think Kate and Nick,
we all have this experience,
every now and again,
someone is just not prepared
for the "Decoder" questions.
They cannot tell us
how they make decisions
or most interestingly of all,
they avoid telling us how
their company is structured
because it turns out that's
a very political answer.
So we could add more to it.
I think there's a lot to get
from the "Decoder" questions.
There's a "Decoder" book
that's gonna come out,
that deal is signed.
I'm not gonna reveal too much about it,
but it's based on those questions.
And the number one thing I would say is
it might be interesting for you
as the person who's hiring or the boss
to ask the people who work for you,
or might want to work for
you, the "Decoder" questions,
how they make decisions,
it is vastly more revealing
to go ask your boss
and if your boss can't answer
how they make decisions,
you should run, you should
start applying for a new job.
That might be the biggest
takeaway from doing the show is,
boy, when somebody can't
answer the questions,
all three of us are like,
"Oh, this episode is gonna
go totally sideways."
I know there's deeper in-the-weeds
decision-making questions
we could ask.
I thought Jon Fortt,
when he interviewed Google's
former chief decision scientist
as a guest episode,
super fascinating episode
and I thought a lot about,
"Should I incorporate more
of these kinds of questions."
But to me, getting the
framework of decisions
and then putting the
framework into practice
with what's actually
happening in the company
is so revealing.
I don't wanna get away from it.
So I could definitely think of more,
I'm eager for your
contributions or your thoughts,
but actually my suggestion
is go ask your boss
how they make decisions and
let me know how the answers go.
'Cause I think that would be
a fundamentally interesting
"Decoder" episode all on its own.
- So should Nick and I be asking
you how you make decisions?
- I have no framework
for making decisions.
It's all chaos and panic every single day.
Sorry, Kate.
- That's not, not true actually.
(Nilay and Kate laughing)
- So, one of the...
I get asked this question a lot.
I do think about how I make decisions,
fundamentally, my goal
is to be predictable.
Like, we run a newsroom,
newsrooms have to run really fast.
If I am not predictable
then all the people who
work in the newsroom
are always, like, destabilized.
All of us have worked in newsrooms before,
we've worked in unstable newsrooms before,
and like, that is just one of
those things about working...
Like "The Verge" newsroom operates
in basically 20-minute increments.
Like, news happens and then
something has to happen
on our site within 20
minutes for us to be on time.
That means I have to
be really predictable.
So, you know, we are always joking
that anybody who's been
within 1,000 miles of Amazon headquarters
gets, like, infected like Pluribus,
you know, like they
all just come out of it
saying the hive-mind thing
about type-one and type-two decisions
and the decisions you can make quickly
'cause you can reverse them,
and the decisions you can't reverse,
you have to go slow.
"The Verge" newsroom is almost entirely
like a type-one decisions newsroom
'cause we just have to go fast.
Like, there'll be another story tomorrow,
we can try again.
Type-two decisions for us are like,
what should the product look like?
You know, like, how should we think
about expanding to YouTube?
And we did take a lot of time
to make sure we got that stuff right.
- Speaking of predictable, CarPlay,
Nilay, you talk about CarPlay a lot.
Every time we have a car CEO,
you ask them about CarPlay.
We had Joanna Stern guest
hosting for you this summer.
She asked all our car CEOs about CarPlay.
Also, you personally like cars,
so we have car CEOs on kind of a lot.
(Nilay laughing)
Listeners have a lot
of thought about this.
So, for example, listener
Matt McCurdy agrees with you
and he said he finds it
"infuriating," that's a quote,
when CEOs don't seem to get
why people want CarPlay.
This is a very popular sentiment
in our comments and our inboxes,
in my house,
my husband is buying a new
car literally tomorrow,
CarPlay was one of his top
features that he had to have.
But we also got an email
from listener Joseph Quinn
who wrote to make the case
for CarPlay not being good.
And he wrote "CarPlay
is a bandaid solution
"to make the best of a bad situation
"in the majority of cars,
"and there exists a lot
of legacy entrenchment
"in that convenience."
So they're both kind of right.
But the overall question
from the inbox is,
"Nilay, why do you care
so much about CarPlay?"
- Well, first, I need to know
what kind of car are you buying?
- Hyundai Elantra Hybrid.
- Oh, sure.
We should just do an entire
episode about hybrids.
- Yeah, it's replacing a 2011 Civic,
so, you know.
- Very good.
No, no CarPlay in the Civic.
Okay, why do I care about CarPlay?
I actually don't like CarPlay.
I have it in one car.
We don't have it.
Well, you know, we had
Mary Barra on from GM,
I have a Cadillac, it
doesn't have CarPlay.
No one misses it, it's fine.
I mounted a phone at the end,
it solved its problems.
Why do we talk about it so much?
Why do we pay so much attention to it?
One, the audience loves it.
So that is easy.
The numbers on CarPlay
episodes are so high.
It's remarkable to us even.
Two, I like a fight
and CarPlay is just a huge fight
and you can see the contours of the fight
if you've paid attention
to computers at all
over the past 20 years.
Who gets to own the interface?
Who gets to own the apps?
Who gets to take 30% out of
every single thing you buy
on this interface?
And historically, the
answer has been Apple.
I think Apple wants to
keep winning that fight.
The car makers all know that
they should not give up control
of things like maps to Apple and Google.
They all know that they're bad at it
and they're losing ground
to companies like Tesla
who are good at it.
Upstarts like Rivian think
they will be good at it.
And then they are also making deals
with Google to provide maps
'cause they're not gonna
be good at making maps.
And so you just get 500
different competing interests
all in a screen,
in an interface people
can see and understand
and have feelings about.
And that's very unusual in tech.
Like, I would love to do 50
episodes on the Fediverse
but I can't make you
care about the Fediverse.
Like, there has to be a
thing that you care about,
and people are very passionate about cars
and they're very passionate
about CarPlay oddly,
again, they're not passionate
about Android Auto,
they're passionate about CarPlay.
And so you just see here's this fight,
this clash of titans
and in the center of it
is something consumers care about a lot.
So I personally agree
with Joseph Quinn here
who says CarPlay is a crutch.
It is a crutch
and it's a crutch because
the car makers are lazy
and they allowed Apple this
big inroad into their product
and Apple's not giving up,
and the consumers aren't giving up,
and they've gotta make something
that's good enough for
you to not want that.
Can they do that?
I do not know the answer to that question.
I think a lot of you think
you know the answer to that question
and the answer is obviously no.
But there are improvements,
there is a lot of
incentive to figure it out
and that's why we keep talking about it
because honestly,
getting a CEO on the show
and saying, "Have you
looked at your own product?
"It's not good,"
is like the prototype of a
great episode of "Decoder."
This is why I keep wanting
enterprise software CEOs in the show
and why they don't come.
But car makers love talking to other cars,
they love talking to me for some reason,
and saying, "Is your software good?
"Really?" is like, that's it.
I can do that for an hour every week
for the rest of my life.
- So we've gotten a bunch
of good topic suggestions
from listeners.
One of them, Laura Cracknell,
is a librarian in the U.K.
She says she would love
for "Decoder" to talk
to some information professionals
about what it's like
in the current moment.
She says, "Libraries are where
lots of normal people end up
"for tech support and computing.
"They're a vital lifeline for people
"who might not have digital access.
"They're also at the front
line of the free speech war."
She's also writing that, "In particular,
"in the U.S. right now,
"public libraries are under siege
"and they're a canary in the coal mine
"for the health of democracy."
So, Nilay, are you interested
in doing any episodes on libraries
or free access to information?
- Yeah, I think we should definitely do
an episode on libraries.
I think that fascinating dynamic
of, like, Silicon Valley
continuing to invent public goods
and accidentally inventing
libraries over and over again
is at the heart of all that.
Like, what does it mean to
have, like, the internet
and access to information as a public good
in the commons supported by the state.
Like, boy, there's a lot of
"Decoder" themes in there
and it is under a lot of pressure.
I think the framing question I would ask
and I welcome the help on this is
how do you make the importance
of a library in a community
legible to people who
might not be going, right?
'Cause it's important
whether or not you're going,
it's important that there's
a place for people to gather.
It's important that
communities just express
that they care about knowledge
in that specific way.
But a lot of people aren't going, right?
And so finding a way to make that turn
seems really important to me.
I'm interested for the feedback
'cause I could use the help.
- I have a friend in Los
Angeles whose job that is
and I think she's about to get yoinked
into helping me with my job.
- Oh, very good.
- Steven Ebsurry, who's
a frequent correspondent,
writes that he would love
to see us do something
on the ever-increasing issue
of digital identity online,
age verification privacy with
adult sites and social media.
Ben Cooper suggested
we should have folks on
to talk about the tech scene in India
and ask if maybe the next Xiaomi or Baidu
might be coming out of India,
which is interesting.
David Jarman actually just sent us a link
about the world's oldest
known org chart from 1855,
which was just very cool.
All of these, Nilay,
so when it comes to
explainer topics, not guests,
we'll come back to that, I promise,
what would you like us to cover in 2026?
- I gotta see this org chart.
Also, I have to believe
there are org charts
older than 1855.
- I don't know,
they claim it's the the
world's oldest org chart,
but maybe it's just
Britain's oldest org chart
'cause it was a British museum.
- Yeah, you don't think
some, like, Roman emperor
had, like, an org chart written down,
and like Claudius is cool, (laughs)
you know, like, it's there.
I know, I know that there's
an older one than that.
We should do that video. That'd be fun.
So we should just do that one
and like, what is an org chart,
where they come from?
I think that's fascinating.
The other two are,
we're gonna do a lot of digital identity
on "The Verge" this year
and I think that will turn
into "Decoder" episodes
over and over again.
Tim Cook is in D.C. this
week and the week before,
lobbying against app stores
having to do age verification.
He does not want that
to be his responsibility
that runs right into
do these platform
providers know who you are,
which runs right into identity,
at the same time, Tim Cook is like,
"Put your driver's license into my phone,
"put your passport into the phone."
Like, "I wanna get rid of your wallet
"but I don't want to know who you are"
is a very weird product stance to have
and that's Apple's
product stance right now.
So I think we're gonna do a lot here.
You can see country by
country, state by state,
there are so many laws
that depend on knowing how old you are
and what content you should access.
Australia just banned
everybody under the age of 16
from having social media.
They need to know who you are.
So we're gonna see a lot there
because the internet, as we know it,
is built on anonymity for
a lot of very good reasons.
There's a lot of surveillance
implications to changing that.
So I can pretty much guarantee
we'll end up doing a bunch of
identity and age verification,
age laws in the context of kids' safety
on "Decoder" in 2026.
That seems like a promise
we can make, right, guys?
The India topic is ultra fascinating.
Obviously, all the big
tech companies are there.
They've spun off a lot
of their own talent.
There's a lot of money in India.
The question of whether India can make
its own giant, multinational,
global tech firm
on the order of a Baidu or something
kind of runs into India's own nationalism,
America's nationalism,
weird Chinese geopolitics
that gets weirder day by
day from what I can tell.
We should do that episode.
It will take us a while to
settle on a theme for that one
because there's so many issues at play
about whether that's possible
today in 2026, right?
If you'd asked me five years ago,
I'd say obviously, this is gonna happen.
There's a bunch of Google
millionaires in India
who are gonna start companies.
But can you start a new
kind of multinational today?
Big question.
- But also the question was
do you have other explainers
you would like us to?
- Oh, (laughs)
you know, I'm gonna come back
and say I think we should do more episodes
on what is happening to social media.
What happens when AI slop
overtakes social media?
What happens to the creator industry
when the supply of content,
because of AI, goes through the roof.
I predict that the creator
economy is gonna get rocked
in 2026.
I basically predict this every year
but you can see the
cracks starting to form.
You can see some of the rates
dropping for brand deals,
which I think is really interesting
and I think the users are
gonna rebel against AI
and the social networks
are gonna have to do a form
of really interesting content
moderation to label that stuff
that they do not want to do.
So I think we're gonna
find ourselves doing explainer episodes
about content moderation again in '26
but in the context of AI and creators,
which will be fascinating.
- Speaking of AI,
we have a lot, a lot
of audience questions,
and feedback, and thoughts
about how much we have discussed
AI on "Decoder" this year.
- Yeah, I would say it was
probably the number one topic
for feedback we got all year long.
Probably the second one was
"Don't talk about Trump so much"
in the beginning of the year,
and then it turned into
"Don't talk about AI so much."
Yeah, we got a lot of feedback about AI.
People angry at AI,
people who don't want
us to feature it at all,
people who want us to only feature it
and light it on fire and
burn it to the ground.
(Nilay laughing)
There was just a lot going on
in the AI space this year, of course.
We got a lot of positive feedback about,
for instance, Liz Lappato's
CoreWeave feature,
which we featured an episode on.
We got a lot of feedback about
Alex Heath's guest hosting
and Casey Newton's guest
hosting this summer,
which our listeners felt
they weren't critical enough
of the AI industry,
which I'm sure they hear
that enough on their own.
We got a lot of feedback
about Hayden Field's episodes
where she talked about AI in the military
and how the AI industry is cozying up
to the military industrial complex.
We also got a lot of positive
feedback about Jon Fortt,
a guest host this summer,
interview with author Gil Duran
who writes a newsletter
called "The Nerd Reich."
He specifically criticized figures
like Elon Musk and Peter Thiel
and kind of their connections
to the Dark Enlightenment
and kind of how it's all coming
together in the AI industry
and companies like Palantir
in a way that feels
really scary and weird.
So yeah, we got kind of the
whole spectrum of feedback
about covering the AI industry
and kind of by extension
Silicon Valley billionaires
and what their vision for the future is.
So, Nilay, how do you think
about AI on "Decoder,"
about covering AI more generally?
And also the fact that it seems
like literally every single
CEO we have on the show
is basically tripping over themselves
to say AI is the thing that's
going to define our future,
it's gonna supercharge our businesses
and we have to invest in it
because if we don't, we're
gonna get left behind.
- Well, first I'll just say something
that I feel very deeply
about the fact that we run a newsroom,
ignoring things does
not make them go away.
And so we could just do
CarPlay episodes every week
for the rest of the year.
The AI industry is not gonna stop.
What we bring to the table,
ideally as a publication, as a show,
is a little bit of critical
distance from the hype
and the ability to have these people on
and ask them the questions.
I talked about the people
who can and cannot answer
the "Decoder" questions.
I invite you to go back
and see how revealing
some of those answers are
in this context, in the
context of the AI question.
'Cause I learned a lot.
And so I like to show my work.
I like very much to say,
like, "I've asked the questions,
"I have my opinions,"
it's based on the fact that
I've done the reporting.
You can evaluate the reporting.
Maybe you think I'm too soft too,
but at least you can
evaluate the reporting.
So that's just the first piece.
I don't think me personally
ignoring the AI industry
will make it go away or stop.
And I don't think me
paying attention to it
or us paying attention to it
accelerates it in any way.
I really just don't think
that's the function of our newsroom.
We cover technology
and I fundamentally believe
that there is something about AI
that will create a new set of products.
And I say this
only because every single day
we are pitched some products
built on the enabling technology of AI.
Do I think LLMs can get to AGI,
I do not.
We have published that piece.
It's fascinating, it's called
"Large Language Mistake,"
it's by Ben Riley.
It's very interesting.
I think there's some hard
limits on what LLMs can do
and I've asked a lot of our
guests about those limits.
I asked Sundar Pichai if he
thinks language is the same
as intelligence on the show
and he was like, "Why are
you doing this to me?"
So I want to keep asking that question.
Underneath that are a lot of
really interesting questions
about how will the web work if
you actually make agents go,
how will anyone get paid?
How are you gonna think about labor?
What is the next interface?
I said I like a fight in
the context of CarPlay,
if you really think
natural language interface
is gonna dominate the computing industry,
there's a lot of questions
downstream of that.
Then there's just the opening question,
is that a good idea?
So I think we're gonna keep covering AI,
it's not going anywhere.
Our attention or ignorance of it
is not gonna affect the
arc of that industry.
I think what we can get is smarter
about what's real and what's hype.
And you might disagree with me,
I know a lot of people disagree with me,
but this isn't to me the same as crypto,
which we have all but ignored
because it's boring and not useful, right?
Like, I don't know what
else to say about that.
We've made that point on the
show as many times as we can.
It's kind of boring and not useful.
AI doesn't feel that to me.
There's parts of it that are super hypey,
there's parts of it where Palantir exists,
and Palantir's business innovation,
as far as I can tell,
is just they will do immoral stuff
and they'll take some
warmed-over database tech
and then do stuff that
no one else would do.
I don't know, we're trying to
have Alex Karp in the show.
I'm gonna ask him that question
if I can get ahold of him.
We'll see what happens.
But the core technology,
the piece of the puzzle
where you as a user can
just talk to the computer
and the computer can take some actions
or instead of APIs will have MCP servers
and the agents can just
query a database in natural,
like, there's something there
that is going to build a
new class of applications.
I think it is very important
to pay critical attention to it
and figure out what's
real and what's fake.
So we're gonna keep doing it.
Again, I don't think the technology
that we have today gets you to AGI
and I think saying that that's
wrong over and over again
is, like, part of the
promise I will make to you.
But everything up to that is,
like, I think up for grabs
and I think there's a
lot of just interest,
young developers, new
companies, new structures
that are fascinating that
we should pay attention to
beyond just talking to the
CEOs of the thing companies
over and over again.
- One specific AI challenge
we discussed this year.
We had your episode on
the DoorDash problem
and you specifically asked
our listeners and viewers
to write into us what their thoughts,
and dozens of them did
what you told them to.
We have a few really
interesting pieces of feedback
about the DoorDash problem.
So Angela Diffly, who said
she's a director at Coca-Cola,
she said, "I believe Perplexity
has a fighting chance
"against Amazon.
"Here's the tension,
"restaurants currently
lose up to 30% margin
"to delivery giants like
DoorDash and Uber Eats.
"They've been clawing
"to bring customers back
to native platforms,
"not just for margin but for data."
She asks, "If AI-driven
ordering agents take over,
"will restaurants finally win
"or just continue to lose margin
to the next big disruptor?
"And when delivery becomes autonomous,"
which is a whole separate
other problem, that is a thing,
"what happens to the
economics of convenience?
And then Ian Janicki also wrote,
"You mentioned that retailers
"could have their customer
connections severed,
"but is that necessarily bad?
As consumers, do we actually want
"to be tracked across the internet
"just to satisfy a value calculation
"or isn't agentic shopping
inherently more privacy-first?"
So it's only been a few weeks
since the DoorDash episode,
but all of our listeners
would like to know
from their responses,
did you hear anything else
that has really surprised you
or changed your thinking on the subject
in that last few weeks?
- Yeah, the one very
surprising thing happened
and I wanna answer our listener questions,
but the episode on YouTube
kind of broke containment
and went into the broader
YouTube algorithm a little bit.
And then the comments were like,
"I can't believe capitalists talk
about owning the customer."
And that, to me, just represents a lot.
Like "Decoder" is a
little bit of a bubble.
It's a business podcast.
We use business vocabulary,
we used acronyms, like,
we're in the bubble
of how do you run a business
and how do you make money on the internet?
And then you break containment
on an algorithmic platform
and a bunch of people hear you talk
about owning the customer
and they're like, "This is horrible."
Like, "I don't wish to
be owned in this way."
And I think there's something
very important there, right?
I don't think people want to feel
like they're a customer that's owned,
that, you know, the idea that
you're perfectly surveilled,
that there's dynamic
pricing on DoorDash now,
people hate this.
Something very important there.
Can your own personal LLM
insulate you from that
by going out in the world on your behalf
and prevent you from being tracked
and deal with the restaurants directly?
'Cause they've set up their
own little MCP servers.
That would be the dream.
Is that likely?
Right, like, is it likely
that we will all have our
own little agent server
in the basement running on a Raspberry Pi
and every restaurant is
gonna have an MCP server
and there's gonna be
an MCP discovery engine
that's decentralized.
Man, I hope so.
If you are building any of those products,
you give us a call,
we will pay so much attention to you
that you have no choice
but to be successful.
But I don't think that's how
it's gonna work. (laughs)
And the flip side of that,
and I saw this on the
comments on our site,
I see this on comments on YouTube,
I think it's reflected in
Angela's comment there,
people aren't happy with DoorDash, right?
They're not happy with these
middlemen service providers,
but those service providers exist, right?
So if you disrupt Uber,
if you get rid of Uber,
and Lyft, and DoorDash,
and whatever else tomorrow,
a lot of people whose income
and livelihoods depend on
those platforms get disrupted.
So you have to make some
trade-offs along the way
and you can say, "Man, I
wish Uber never existed."
But the problem is that it does.
Like, I can't do anything
about that for you.
So it exists and now you're saying,
"Okay, it could change
and could get disrupted."
All the people who make their living
driving for Uber today,
what are you gonna do with them?
And so maybe the 30% should
move back to the restaurants,
but now you've taken away
from the Uber drivers
and you've moved it to robots,
that is a trade-off you could make.
The technology could force us
into that trade-off over time.
But I think our show is
gonna just put people
in the complicated situation
of having to make those trade-offs
or at least work through those trade-offs
over the course of an hour-long interview.
'Cause it's all coming.
And I don't think the agents,
they're not gonna live in our
basements on Raspberry Pis.
They're gonna live on big,
centralized cloud services
operated by tech giants who
have their own incentives.
Understanding their
incentives versus your own
will be, I think, critical
to preserving some consumer agency.
- One listener, Asif Saggi,
wrote in about your prediction last year
related to the economy, Nilay.
So you brought it up a little bit earlier
that you are kind of always keeping an eye
on the creator economy,
what might happen to it.
He's asking specifically, "Do you think
"that with AI dominating
the industry right now,
"will we even notice or hear
the creator bubble bursting
"or do you think the creator economy
"has already corrected itself?"
- I think there's been some correction
in the creator economy already.
Let me be specific
about what I mean there.
The creator economy is really expressed
as brands can show up,
pay creators to do
endorsements and sponsorships
and that will drive some
sales back to those brands.
That's the whole economy.
There's not a part of that economy
where any of the platforms
are paying creators high
enough rates to survive.
So if you are a YouTuber,
or an Instagram influencer, or a TikToker,
YouTube, Instagram, and TikTok
are not paying you nearly
enough money to eat.
It's just not true.
And so all of those creators
need to get subsidized by brands.
They need to do brand
deals and sponsorships
and find other ways to make money,
'cause the platforms
themselves don't pay enough.
And this is the heart
of the creator economy.
The platforms don't pay enough money
to support the content of the platforms.
So advertising has to fill in the gap.
And what you're seeing this year is
the advertisers are not paying
the same rates as they were,
particularly in like the pandemic
when rates shot through the roof
'cause no one can measure anything.
The advertisers are getting smarter
about the return their
money is delivering.
So you can't just pay every creator,
you can actually start
to measure creators.
We had the CEO of SharkNinja on the show
and he said they do very
sophisticated measurement
of engagement.
They don't just want views,
they want likes and comments.
They're doing sentiment
analysis on the comments
on the videos the creators do
to promote SharkNinja products
to figure out what creators
to work with over time
in a relationship.
That means rates are dropping, right?
You're now measuring,
you're paying for results.
The inevitable result of
metrics is you drop rates
'cause you're not paying
the the margin for unknowns,
you're only paying for what you want.
That's fascinating to me.
Then you have just the reality
of SharkNinja is going
to a bunch of creators
and saying, "We're gonna pay
for exactly this result,"
and you have turned all
these platforms into QVC,
and audience engagement might drop.
Then you flood the
platforms with AI content,
which is, like, pure engagement slop
that you can make for $0
and you can drop those rates even farther.
Then you have Mark Zuckerberg saying,
"You don't even need to make ad creative,
"pay us money, we will AI generate you ads
"and deliver you business results."
Which is the thing he
said earlier this year.
I think that's gonna
drop rates even farther.
So you just see the beginning
of the pressure on this economy
where because the platforms
do not value the content,
they literally do not pay
enough to the creators to eat,
they are wholly dependent on the dynamics
of the advertising industry.
And the advertising industry
is both professionalizing
and industrializing the creator economy
and dealing with AI like everybody else.
And all that means is
the rates are dropping,
the rates for a brand deal are dropping
and the middle class of creators
is absolutely getting squeezed.
So I think that will be a theme.
It was a little bit of our theme
of our coverage this year.
It's gonna be a big theme next year.
And like I said,
I think the platforms are
gonna have to start labeling
and filtering AI content for
a huge number of reasons.
I think a revolt from creators
is gonna be one of those reasons.
- That's the AI piece of it all.
That really takes us to
our Monday guest lineups
because we've talked to a
lot of AI CEOs this year
and also every CEO we've
talked to this year claims
to be an AI CEO.
- Yeah, without exception.
- Without exception, all of them.
The next person we are interviewing
is also going to do that.
That's just what they are.
We get a lot of our
suggestions for who to talk to
from our audience.
When we talked to Unity CEO
Matt Bromberg last year,
that started with a listener email.
That subject line was literally,
"Please, interview my boss."
I loved that.
If you want us to interview your CEO
so we can ask them how they
make decisions for you,
absolutely, let us know.
Recent requests we've
had come into the inbox
this past couple weeks
include the CEO of Stripe,
the CEO of Framework Computer,
AI guy, Geoffrey Hinton,
and Linus Torvalds,
which are all interesting suggestions.
We'll see what next year holds.
- If you can get us Linus
- Yeah, right?
- Make the call, let's do it.
- Yeah,
like, let us know please.
We would love to.
Last year we had a set of
moonshot guests that was,
I don't know, last year we said
maybe we'll wanna talk to Tim Cook
or maybe we'll wanna talk to Bob Iger.
I would still really like
us to talk to Bob Iger.
I wanna know what he's thinking.
Nilay, who do you have on this
year's moonshot guest list?
- That's a good one.
Yeah, I'm taking Tim Cook off the list.
I've said this on "The
Vergecast" several times.
I don't think he has
anything interesting to say,
or if he does, he won't say it.
I've watched any number
of Tim Cook interviews
over the past 15 years
and I've yet to think that I
personally can crack the code
because no one else has.
So just off the list.
Like, unless, Tim,
you wanna blow it up on your
way out the door, you know.
if you wanna announce you're
leaving Apple on "Decoder,"
now's the time.
It's off the list.
Moonshots, actually, I do think
I should do more interviews
with people I don't agree
with or openly disagree with.
So Alex Karp is high on my list.
I have a lot of questions
about what Palantir's
technology actually is.
If you watch any interview with him
or any executive at Palantir,
they obfuscate the answers
to what it is they actually
make incredibly hard
and I don't think you can
get away with that with me.
So he's high on my list.
I think we're overdue on Andy Jassy.
We've had a lot of Amazon
executives on the show.
I'm dying to know what he thinks
about the future of that business
in the context of agentic retail,
and all those questions there,
in the context of having to spend money
on data center build-outs.
Andy Jassy, come on the show.
Bob Iger, definitely on the list,
especially now that he's asking Google
to stop training on Disney IP
and then he's investing a
billion dollars in OpenAI
so that they can use Disney IP.
That seems very backwards.
I would love to ask him about
the mechanics of that deal
and what he's thinking there.
Dario from Anthropic,
we've done a lot of AI CEOs,
we should have Dario, we
should have Sam Altman.
I think Sam Altman is another one
where asking what his actual plans,
"Can you describe the structure
of OpenAI, Sam Altman?"
That's a challenge I'll issue to you.
This is what this show is for.
Everyone gets asked
where their org chart is.
"Can you describe
OpenAI's org chart, Sam?"
I welcome you on the show.
And then I have to say this,
"Vergecast" listeners
know this is on my list,
FCC Chairman Brendan Carr.
Have him anywhere, anytime, any place,
but if Brendan wants to
come on "Decoder" this year,
I think we have to take the shot.
I think that will be a
very interesting episode.
And it's not so much a moonshot,
we've interviewed her before
but I actually think Lisa Su from AMD,
we should have her back next year.
She's in the heart of
the chip conversation.
She needs to compete for
capacity with TSMC, with Nvidia,
which is a fascinatingly hard challenge.
We should probably get
Jensen on from Nvidia too,
but I think, actually Lisa,
every time we've been on
she's been refreshingly candid
and AMD is, like, mounting
a little bit of a comeback
and I think that would be a
really good episode next year.
- That was a perfect segue
into our next question,
which is about repeat guests.
In particular, listener Ian
wanted to know how that happens.
He says, "You often say to a guest
"at the end of an interview
"that it'd be great to have them back,
"but what's your decision-making framework
"around actually getting them back?
"Do you wait for a new product, a book?
"Do you set a reminder, like
the one I have for 2030"
and this person actually has a reminder,
a screenshot of their Reminders app
where they say, "Contact
Nilay Patel and remind him
"that the Metaverse will
have a great year in 2030."
- That's great.
- So, yeah,
he wants to know how do
you have a guest back
and how does it work?
- I should ask you two because
you two do all the booking.
My impression of how
"Decoder" works right now is
that we do very little outbound.
We have a lot of incoming,
a lot of people wanna be on the show.
The joke I keep making is that
it's a game called Nilay
versus media training,
which is a game you can win
but also a game you can lose.
And the fact that it's
a little bit challenging
makes a lot of very
competitive type A CEOs
wanna be on the show.
'Cause they see their
peers either win or lose
and they think they can do better.
By the way, this is not like
some secret information.
I say this out loud all the time
and everyone knows this
is how I think of the show
and everyone keeps showing up.
So that's great.
That continues to work.
There's a piece of the puzzle
which is really interesting.
I've heard this from a few people,
I'm curious if anyone
wants to confirm it to us,
where a lot of times the
executives come on the show
'cause they wanna prove
to their own employees
that they can take the heat
and there's no way to do that
in, like, the branded content universe
or the softball interview universe
or like, the employee town hall.
Like,
you can't have your own head
of comms ask you a question
that amounts to do you
know what you're doing,
but I'll do that.
And so, like, there's
something important there.
So that's one reason
they keep coming back.
The repeat guests for me are
when someone got a new job,
when they're the new CEO or
they're the outgoing CEO,
super fascinating, they're
a little bit more candid.
They have to make some.
Anjali Sud, right?
She went from Vimeo to Tubi.
I love talking to her
about that transition.
I thought that was one
of our best episodes ever
'cause she learned a bunch
of stuff at one place
and she obviously worked at another place.
She didn't have to pretend
that everything had gone
well at the previous place.
Like, she got to be honest
about what she'd learned.
I think that's an incredible
time to bring someone back.
And then there are structural
changes in an industry
that I think are a really good
time to bring people back on.
So I suspect we will have
Sundar Pichai and Satya Nadella
on the show on a cadence forever
because there's huge structural changes
in the industries in which they work.
They are among the masters of the universe
and they like explaining
how they are approaching those changes.
And I like hearing those answers.
I think you can hear those interviews.
I obviously disagree with their
answers from time to time,
but that dynamic is
really important to me.
Like, "Is there a structural change?
"Can you walk me through
it in a way that's honest?"
That's the other time
when I think a repeat
guest is really important.
Having a car CEO back every six months
to say they haven't changed
their mind on CarPlay,
I think is of diminishing value. (laughs)
So, yeah, big structural changes,
or new job, new role,
if you've changed your org chart,
you've restructured your company.
I love those episodes
because there's something
very rich to talk about.
- I will say you threw
it to us for a second.
It is much more common for me and Nick
to tell somebody, "No,
you can't come back.
"It's too soon,"
than it is for us to have to reach out
and say, "Will you come back?"
- Yeah.
- Which I think is interesting.
I'm glad you mentioned media training,
Nilay versus media training
because we had one very
interesting email from Zach Yani
who wrote, "My honest feedback is
"that Nilay versus media
training isn't good radio
"Nilay and the "Decoder" format
are one of the best attempts
"to make these PR stops interesting
"with the 'Decoder' questions
and asking hard questions.
"Occasionally,
"Nilay even generates a
really interesting moment
"when he backs them into
a corner hard enough,
"but by and large this
is not a good format.
"It was a great experiment.
"If anyone could have done
it, it would've been Nilay,
"but media training makes it boring."
But he adds, "On the other hand,
"when Nilay talks to people
"who aren't selling a company vision
"'Decoder' can really shine.
"There have been some truly
great episodes of that format
"and I bet leaning into that
"could get some even better guests."
We've talked about this
a lot inside our team.
Nilay, I would love for our audience
to hear your thoughts on
our Monday guests overall
and the whole concept of
Nilay versus media training.
- All right, can I rewind
the clock all the way.
We do think about this a lot.
I'm rewinding the clock to the
very beginning of "Decoder"
and this show started as
Kara Swisher's show, right?
It was "Recode Decode"
hosted by Kara Swisher.
And so she went off to do the next thing.
She graciously said we
could take over the feed.
And I was like, "I have
to replace Kara Swisher."
Like, just imagine that.
Be like, "Oh yeah, I can just do that."
And so I made a list of
all the things Kara did
that were of value to the audience
and all the things I could do.
And there's a whole bunch
of stuff Kara can do
that I can't do.
Just you can make that
list and send me your list,
send me the list of things
you think Kara can do that I can do
and I'll tell you if
it's the same as mine.
And the one thing I could circle that was,
I can keep this value
to the audience going
without completely cratering the feed
and ruining everyone's experience
was I can interview CEOs, right?
This is where this all started.
Like, what is Kara delivering
every week on this show
that I'm gonna rebrand and
try to do something new,
and instead of being like,
"Hey, it's totally different now."
Like, I can continue on
with some scrap of value
and maybe earn your
trust, do something else.
And it literally was,
"I can get CEOs to show
up and talk to me."
There's a lot of reasons for that.
I think chief among them is
the version of product review site.
And every CEO who makes tech products
wants to be near product reviews.
And I can do that.
Great, so we can get the CEOs show up
and talk about product.
So that was step one.
And I think that was successful.
We didn't turn a bunch
of Kara's audience away
and Kara went off to do all her
amazing things that she does
and now we're doing
something different, right?
And over time, we started
doing really different things.
I'm not at all trying to compete with Kara
and all the things she does.
Again, I think she's doing great.
I think it's useless to
try to compete with that.
I'm trying to try to do my own thing.
That's where you get "Decoder" questions.
How do I deliver different value?
How do I make this meaningfully different?
Casey Newton is always saying
the podcast ecosystem is such
that any person is always
talking to someone else
and you can find that conversation.
Like, you can pick two names out of a hat,
they've done a podcast episode together.
How are you gonna make it different?
So we try to make it different
with "Decoder" questions
by adding the sort of explainer episodes.
And we have now gotten to the place
where I think our own audience data shows,
people like the episodes where I talk
more than the episodes
where the CEOs talk,
that's a victory.
I feel very weird about
that, but we have it.
We are hearing the feedback.
Do the explainer episodes,
do the DoorDash problem episodes.
The problem with all that
is that I am, at my
core, still a reporter,
and I need to show you my reporting.
So if I just show up
and do ranted-out video
episodes every week,
it would be much easier for all of us.
And as you can tell, I
could probably just do it,
but if I don't have the reporting,
I won't feel good about it.
And so to me a huge part
of the Monday episode
is just showing my work.
Here's how I do the things I do.
Here's where the opinions
I have come from.
I allow these people to
challenge my opinions
as directly as they want,
I challenge theirs.
I've come to a deeper, more
interesting understanding
of how this whole industry works,
of how the masters of the
universe make decisions.
And then I can show up
on a Thursday episode
and say, "Hey, I think that sucks"
and I feel great about
where that came from.
And there's just some honest dealing
about all that that's important.
Now, does media training suck?
Are there episodes where,
in the middle of it, I'm like, "Boy,
"I could just be talking to AI right now?"
Yes, I will try to do better
at breaking that down.
I think one of the big learnings
we had this year as a team was,
well, we do a lot of prep.
Kate and Nick write
amazing prep docs for me.
And I spend an hour before every
episode just inhaling them.
And then the more I leave it behind,
the better off we are, right?
Where I just let the episodes go
to wherever I think is interesting
and I don't try to hit all
the questions on the list.
That's a thing that I'm
gonna start to push on
to make the interviews more interesting.
But I do think the core dynamic
of everybody can see me doing the work
and that is the foundation
for all the other stuff I say
that feels very important to me.
'Cause if I don't show my work,
I'm not sure how I can earn trust
in a media environment
that looks like this one.
All right, what do you guys think?
Should we just stop interviewing CEOs?
- I think you probably won
or at least came to a
draw versus media training
for like, like a majority of 2025.
I can only think of a couple
that, like, media training really won.
- I will say that we all know
when we get someone from
McKinsey on the show
that it's gonna be a fight.
Like, if you're a CEO
and you spent time working at McKinsey,
like, I come ready for war
against media training.
Like, startup founders,
we love startup founders
'cause they're all just raw.
Like, they're just ready to go.
They will say anything.
And there's a real dynamic there
that I think is fascinating.
But yeah, the consultant class and I,
it's ex consultants and politicians
where I'm still working on it.
I've taken to just swearing
at the politicians.
- You said this before
where you said that you think some portion
of the "Decoder" audience just wants you
to end every episode by arresting a CEO.
(Nilay laughing)
I think that's a kind of useful frame too,
because you know, as much as,
yeah, sometimes you get the McKinsey's,
you also do, every once in a while,
get those interviews that
do have explosive moments.
And then those interviews
I do feel like add fuel
to the "Decoder" frame for
future interviews, right?
Because if somebody sees
somebody kind of melt down,
they come on the show and they go,
"Oh, well, I can't do that.
"I don't wanna do what the Intuit CEO did
"because that's bad."
- I encourage more CEOs to come on
and do what the Intuit CEO did,
if you could, that would make my day.
- I think there is value
in, you know, not treating every interview
like you're trying to create that moment,
but like, giving enough room
where that moment could
happen with almost anybody
except for maybe the super,
super well media-trained folks,
does create a good enough dynamic
that like, you know,
it's kind of like a
will-it-happen kind of thing.
- Yeah, look, I read the comments,
we read all the emails.
I get the criticism
that this sometimes
feels like free publicity
for people who are just trying
to increase the ferocity
of the capitalist hellhole
in which we all live.
Okay, I think my job as a reporter,
my job as a person who
runs this newsroom is
to ask the questions as directly as I can.
And look, I started my career
without any access at all.
I started as a journalist
making $12 a post
writing about SD cards for
Engadget, a division of AOL,
like, and that might have
been when I was happiest,
to be perfectly honest with all of you.
Like, Nick has actually been
a reporter in our newsroom.
Like, I'm like, "We should
write about SD cards"
like all the time. (laughs)
- Like-
- It's a recurring theme
since the last 10 years.
- Yeah.
- Being a gadget blogger
might be where my heart is.
I do not care about the access.
I really don't.
I think access is poison.
I think it it changes your worldview,
it warps your incentives.
And my firm belief is that
the less access you need,
the more you get.
And that has been borne out
across the entire arc of "The Verge."
It's been borne out across
the entire arc of "Decoder."
We are at the point, I keep saying this,
the audience is like, "We
just want you to talk."
That is a very powerful position to be in.
So we're gonna keep earning that,
but then I should use
that to get the access
that other people have to, like, ask for
or make concessions to get.
And we don't have to do that
and I won't ever do that.
And I think that puts me in a position
where we can create more of
these moments of conflict,
more adversarial moments of journalism,
but we also have to not be rude.
Like, the people have to
want to show up and engage
and be honest with me.
And so I think sometimes people see,
like, decorum as concession
and there's nothing I can do about that.
They have to open their web browser
and look into a camera and talk to me.
And the fact that often they're not even
in the same room as me
means leaving is trivial.
It's like, you're a Command + W away
from ending this interaction.
And so you do have to walk
the line a little bit.
- This actually brings us very well
to the last question we have for you.
Listener Jeremy Curl
wrote in with frustration
with tech journalism podcasts overall.
And he writes, "The tech
industry is creating
"and exacerbating problems within society.
"Aren't we way past the point
"of looking at tech as cool and fun
"and definitively going
to solve all problems.
"There is some deep, dark
shit happening because of tech
"and it has the power to
really tear apart society."
That's a very valid point.
He adds, "We need tech journalism
"to be better at shining a
light on these troubling issues,
"otherwise, a podcast sounds
like two people hanging out
"at a dinner party."
So based on that, what does the future
of "Decoder" in 2026 look like to you?
(both laughing)
- Yeah, I don't disagree at all.
Not one bit.
I think the "Decoder"
team shares that worldview
in a very real way.
"The Verge" is built on that worldview.
When we started in 2011,
the idea that technology
would just change culture
was not taken for granted.
Like, this was our pitch.
Like, we're starting a new website.
It's about technology and
culture being the same thing.
And everyone was like,
"What are you talking about?
"It's cell phones, right?
"You're doing cell phones."
It turns out cell phones have
changed the entire world.
Like, we were correct.
We bet correctly,
but it was not obvious when we started,
the way it is obvious now.
That's still our foundation,
that's still our thesis.
We do a lot of that coverage.
That's where a bunch of angry emails
about covering Trump came from.
Were committed to that coverage.
You know, my thesis of the early part
of the Trump administration and DOGE
was a bunch of tech bros
realized the government runs on databases
and they could just take over
the databases and delete them
and that would change the government.
And it kind of worked.
That's weird.
That's just a weird outcome that happened
along the way of the Trump administration
being a political force
that started on cell phones.
So there's some combination there.
The thing I will caution you about,
and I'll caution everybody about is
if you make your focus relentlessly that,
you will only attract an audience
of people who care about that.
You will narrow the amount
of impact that you can have.
And so we have a big audience of people
who do like technology,
who do think it should
be used for good things.
Who are excited about
the craziest Wi-Fi router
on display at CES.
I'm one of those people.
We should do a lot of "Decoder" episodes
about the Raspberry Pi
that runs my smart home.
Like, I would love to do that.
I think the trick is taking that audience
that sees the benefit of technology,
who loves it for its own sake,
and saying these are the consequences.
These are the implications
of the choices that are
being made by the companies
that are developing the
technologies that you love.
And there's a lot there.
I'll give a really dumb example.
And this is the very small thing
that was a genesis of all
of our policy coverage
here at "The Verge."
Do you remember the, like, iPhone 3GS
and the iPhone 4 had bad service,
like, they dropped a lot of calls.
- Yeah.
- So we're like, we were
running Engadget at the time,
and you're like, well, how
does the iPhone drop calls?
There's an Antennagate.
And you start with the iPhone drops calls
and you're like, it's
not really the iPhone,
it's AT&T.
Why does AT&T drop calls?
It's 'cause our 3G network is overloaded.
It's 'cause they don't
have enough spectrum.
And the government is actually
gonna shut down the analog TV system
to re-farm 700-megahertz spectrum for LTE
and that will solve the iPhone.
And you end up at, now we cover the FCC.
Like, very quickly,
you end up at here's
how FCC auctions work.
And that to me,
that's the link I wanna make to people.
Here's this experience
you're having on your phone
and here's this entire structure
that explains that experience.
That's why the show is called "Decoder."
And a lot of that structure
looks like capitalism.
A lot of that structure looks like
here's how org charts work.
But even more of that structure is
here's how it makes you feel
and, like, here's how people
are managing those feelings
about the experience.
You feel bad about DoorDash,
you're still using DoorDash.
That's The Verge," that's "Decoder."
We're gonna keep doing it.
Again, the caution is you don't
wanna narrow your audience
to people who wanna feel bad.
You want to expand your audience
to people who love things
and say, "Actually your
interest, your enthusiasm,
"that can be the push to make
some of this stuff better."
(upbeat music)
- [Nick] We'd like to thank
Nilay for joining the show
and thank you for tuning in,
not just today, but all year long.
We hope you've enjoyed it
and we're really looking
forward to another great year
with all of you here on "Decoder."
We also have some really exciting news,
"Decoder" will be live at CES
2026 on Wednesday, January 7th
at the Brooklyn Bowl.
We'd love for you to come hang
out with us during the show
and we have some very fun stuff planned.
Stay tuned for more details on how to RSVP
in the coming days.
If you'd like to let us know
what you thought about this show
or what else you'd like us to cover,
drop us a line.
We're at decoder@theverge.com.
And we hope this episode demonstrated
that we really do read every email.
You can also go hit up
Nilay on Threads or Bluesky.
If you like "Decoder,"
please share it with your friends
and subscribe wherever
you get your podcasts.
"Decoder" is a production of "The Verge"
and is part of the Vox
Media Podcast Network.
See you next year.
(upbeat music)